senator Church said his bill would help
ensure that the Social Security program
could be administered non politically
and impartially for the one in seven
Americans receiving some form of
benefits then he outlined the bill's
major provisions my proposal would
create a three member governing board
appointed by the president with the
consent of the Senate to administer the
Social Security program to insure
against undue political influence the
three members would be appointed for
staggered terms of five years each the
bill also contains another safeguard to
better guarantee that the non-political
nature of the Social Security and the
Supplemental Security income programs is
maintained this would be achieved by
prohibiting the mailing of announcements
such as notices of increased benefits
with Social Security checks which make
any reference to any public office
holder my proposal would not and I want
to underscore this point preclude the
mailing of notices for legitimate
informational purposes by the Social
Security Administration a similar bill
will be introduced in the house by
congressman Wilbur Mills and Church said
that he thinks prospects for passage of
the proposals is good Neal Jones on
Capitol Hill
and I'm persuaded by the
Secretary's testimony that this Accord
is a very important breakthrough and
offers us really the first promise of
eventually bringing the nuclear arms
race under effective control do you have
any doubts about any of the aspects of
the salt breakthrough the doubts rather
I should say the questions I had were
answered to my satisfaction this morning
and I do hope on the basis of the record
that we can make and the debate that
will no doubt take place we can marshal
strong bipartisan and congressional
support for this agreement
what were your requesters I'd rather not
go into them in detail because this was
a closed meeting senator there are some
who feel that instead of putting a cap
on the arms race the arms race will in
fact continue under cap to use that back
I know I have heard that argument and
that was one of the questions that came
up in fact it was one of the questions I
asked and I'm satisfied that the answer
is that this agreement will not
stimulate the development of new weapon
systems but will in fact put the first
overall ceiling on intercontinental
strategic nuclear weapons and therefore
represents the first beginning toward
effective control once that sealing is
established it could in future years
lead to reductions with all the numbers
but could it also lead to
elevations of the numbers as well I
would rather think not because the
numbers are obviously going to be
sufficient to provide whatever measure
of security nuclear weapons confer and
the lesson that's more likely to be
learned is that fewer numbers can confer
equals security and therefore the vast
expense involved in maintaining a system
at that level can be avoided on both
sides that's what's that's what I would
hope for but until you establish some
kind of level some kind of ceiling you
have no starting place up until now we
really have had no starting place but
this does represent a breakthrough that
enables us to begin the process of
ending the addition of more weapons and
thus the opportunity in the future
actually to reduce the numbers what
about the element of I believe that
great progress was made in Vladivostok
however a lot of the details have to be
worked out I am reassured and hopeful as
a result of the Secretary's appearance
that we are going to have a meaningful
agreement
first of all control and then hopefully
of armed reduction but it is true that
many of the details which interest me as
a member of the Armed Services Committee
and as chairman of the military
installation subcommittee of the Joint
Atomic Energy Committee have not yet
been worked out and that the secretary
was frank and saying but it's a hopeful
position and I think he at the
should be commended for the progress
they've made up till now what about
additional costs as a reason how long
have you got here well we take a long
time to tell but of course the secretary
has been traveling of late you know that
and we reviewed with him some of the
things of bladder Vostok for instance
and the Cyprus situation many other
things and he has given us a very good
mr. chairman and I reported to the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee as I
always do after treads about primarily
Vladivostok as well as the discussions
that have been going on with respect to
Cyprus and the status of the Middle East
and it was as usually a given take in
which the senators told me their views
and made their recommendations senator
was there any perceptible skepticism
about the blond Vostok agreement no I
felt that the numbers were pleased with
the discussion that the secretary gave
us and I think I could say that the
spirit was one of optimism the progress
had been made
are you surprised to run into the
dimensions of the criticism and
skepticism about the body Vaslav
agreement
yes I'm surprised and I believe that
when the figures are correctly analyzed
it will be seen that putting a ceiling
on the total numbers and putting a
ceiling on the most dangerous weapons
namely the multiple warheads for a
period of 10 years is a very significant
achievement it will be for the first
time in the 30 years of the nuclear age
that both can both of the big nuclear
countries can operate with the knowledge
that fixed ceilings exist and that they
do not live with the nightmare of either
side taking off towards superiority
can you see sarin arms race continuing
under the ceiling figures I can see a
small like some degree of an arms race
continuing but a great deal of its
urgency will be removed because it will
be very difficult to calculate how
either side can achieve a decisive
advantage when they are operating with
fixed ceiling mister secretary wants
today's status of the Middle East crisis
well today's status is that there's no
acute Middle East crisis we are
continuing our efforts in a in
attempting to produce a step by step
progress towards peace in the Middle
East as you know the Israeli Foreign
Minister alone is coming here next week
for a general exchange of ideas between
our two governments and undoubtedly we
will have an occasion to take up the
subject with it now
the foreign aid village of strands and
your sources a movie
well we very much appreciate the efforts
that are being made to pass the bill
there are some aspects that we seriously
questioned such as the Eagleton
amendment but on the whole we are
pleased with it girls
Sandra Sparkman do you anticipate that
the bill will pass today yes I hope it
will in fact I believe I believe under
the agreement we're supposed to vote on
it not later than six o'clock I believe
that's right thank you Thank You mr.
secretary
I need a full-time within the next two
weeks what advantages are having an
attorney with trial experience in an
investigation like this
mr. Schwartz experience has been also
that of an investigative attorney
there was much investigative work to be
done in connection with the IBM cases
which were as large and as important as
any that have ever been brought in the
federal courts and his record there has
established him as one of the foremost
investigative and litigating attorneys
so we think he has all of the
qualifications for the IBM company and
the since in the several of these suits
he had a good deal of investigating to
do as a defense attorney and extracting
evidence from various government
agencies that were helpful to the IBM
company he had any experience in the
intelligence community or anyone he was
assistant commissioner for law revision
for the government of northern Nigeria
he he had some experience foreign
experience of that kind and he also has
worked in New York City in connection
with some police reform activities that
has been very important there and this
has also been successfully done and
successfully completed so he has had the
kind of experience that we think will
uniquely qualify him for the important
role that he'll play as chief counsel
for the committee the committee decided
anything else
he also approved a list of other staff
appointments subject to final clearance
by the executive agencies and the names
of those staff appointees will be made
available to the press just as soon as
Bill Miller can apparently we will
request the meeting with the vice
president in his capacity as chairman of
the administration's own Commission that
is now investigating these
we hope to ask and the committee has
authorized me to ask the vice president
at that time for all of the records and
the transcripts the material that the
Commission has gathered so that we can
avoid duplicating the Commission's work
and we think that this information will
help us get off to a running start we
want to gather in we want to gather all
the information that's currently
available before we begin our own work
would you well we will work this I'll
help for the vice-president we just we
have we were we're really
the in in the in the field of covert
operations we expect he'll be back again
on Friday morning yes he responded to
questions this afternoon yes that was in
the nature of a general briefing and now
we're moving into the specifics and he
spent the afternoon answering questions
there were surprises today well I'm not
really at liberty to disclose them now
but there was new information today that
had not surfaced before we are in the
area of covert operations and we'll stay
in that area and for some some time
that relation esta covert operations or
farms over number
- both I'd say all I must say that the
issue we are exploring is whether the
United States should engage in covert
operations and what extent they should
be limited in the future based upon our
experience in the past there is no doubt
but what some of the activities of the
CIA have exceeded the law in that sense
they are illegal and we need to put we
need to put a stop to unlawful action by
any agency of the government what he was
talking about today the ones that
surprised you were violations in the
federal statutes criminal acts in some
cases he was testifying to activities
that he himself conceded were outside
the law yes some some of the information
we received today was new to the
committee and to my knowledge has not
surfaced heretofore
well let me say on that question that
we're looking into it very thoroughly
and I don't want to make any statement
that is not first authorized by the
committee and is not based upon a
thorough investigation rather than on
the testimony of a single witness we
haven't yet had an opportunity to call
the other witnesses we intend to call
but before we're finished we'll have all
of the information and then the
committee will decide what action to
take
what disclosure to make guess that was a
that was an issue the in the questioning
today was perhaps the central issue no
though we do expect to go into that on
Friday with the director and he will be
put on notice that the committee will
spend a good deal of its questioning on
the Phoenix operation Friday morning
well I I I think that I can say that
some very serious questions have been
raised to which the committee will have
to address itself no I would rather not
get into that at this time because it
would constitute a kind of partial
disclosure and as I've said I want to
wait until the committee has all the
evidence and then the committee may
decide on the nature of the disclosure
he was a forthcoming witness I would say
that he came with a with the desire to
inform the committee and did in fact
respond directly to our questions and I
think undertook to answer them fully
well he testified on the subject of
assassinations yes I can't go further
than that at this time I've said before
that public statements that mr. Colby
has made and and others as well have
been correct but not complete and I
think that mr. Colby has said that the
CIA has not been involved in any
assassination of a foreign leader I
think that's the best way that I can
respond to your question
involved in an attempt to entice link
which didn't assassinate the CIA itself
but somebody else do it I think that I'd
better stick to my previous rule and not
get specific right now because we don't
yet have all of the evidence and the
committee has not yet decided on the
form that our disclosure should take
that is correct no it was not merely to
enter a general denial but but now wait
a minute I'm not going to go any further
than this because I would be breaking
faith with the committee and the
committee quite rightly has decided that
there should be no discussion of the
particulars until the committee has had
the benefit of all the evidence we will
disclose those witnesses as we call them
they will be they will be a they will be
witnesses who can give us personal
testimony on the basis of personal
knowledge and and when we call them the
press will be informed
the answer is yes we're going to first
question mr. Colby and then we'll make
decisions as to whether or not it's
necessary to call further witnesses well
let me say that that I think that by now
I'm shockproof I'm ashamed to have to
admit that
that the Kobe report
that Brett
no the Colby report we now have the full
report initially some information was
withheld but all of it has now been
supplied well initially the
that's going to have to be up to the
Japanese government which or the diet
which I'm told intends to conduct its
own investigation
we have no testimony taken an executive
session that differs from that which I
went public and as you will recall the
Lockheed officials including mr. Cochin
said that they did not know to whom
money was passed though they were told
that government officials received money
apparently the arrangement was that
Lockheed would pay its own agents large
sums of money and then would ask no
further questions as to what was done
with that money
well I appreciate Walter Cronkite's
position because he's one who has been
accused he denies it and I have no
reason to think that that his denial is
absolutely valid I have no suspicion
that mr. Cronkite at any time was ever
an agent of the CIA but but i but i i
believe that since we know that there
were some correspondence abroad who have
been paid in one way or another but the
CIA that we should find out the extent
of the practice and the committee i hope
will recommend that the practice be
discontinued in the future
well you've got to recognize that we
either are going to maintain
constitutional government or we're going
to give all a power to determine what
our national secrets to the president
there may be a serious disagreement on
this score and if the Congress is not
going to stand up as the representative
body of the people and assert its own
right to determine what is or what is
not a legitimate secret then it becomes
subservient to the presidency we've had
too much secrecy in this country it is
corrupted the government it's corrupted
the whole constitutional process and
we've got to decide whether we want this
to continue after the revelation of all
these abuses that crept into the system
because of excessive secrecy or do we
want responsible congressional oversight
that doesn't mean a subordinate Congress
it means a constitutional Congress that
is a separate independent and co-equal
branch of the government
I think we should say senator Church
that the subcommittee does not have the
names of a single government official of
Japan in its possession today has no
knowledge of any government officials
involvement if the administration the
State Department requests sub committee
to use its subpoena power to obtain such
names we may well decide to do that but
the purpose of our investigation is not
an interrogation of a particular
situation purpose of our investigation
to determine whether or not legislation
is desirable and we will conduct and
finish up an investigation if requested
to do so by our own State Department yes
I think that's a fair statement it may
be that the administration has those
names in its possession
if Lockheed has turned them over to the
administration but we presently do not
have
I think that as a result of the Senate
vote today the chances that we will have
in the future the kind of abuses that we
disclosed in the course of that
investigation have been much reduced
it's likely that this country will be
better for it
that the future of freedom is more
assured and the constitutional
responsibility of the Senate to
supervise the activities of these
powerful agencies that are permitted to
operate so much in secret will now be
discharged it's a great day for freedom
no I want I advocated or said I was
willing back almost two years ago for a
joint committee of the House and the
Senate carefully selected to be given
jurisdiction in these matters I wouldn't
have given him as much as this
resolution gives but with a competent
staff and with an added statute passed
making it a criminal of penalty of
criminal offense to disclose our to
leaked classified material
this is really getting perfectly absurd
we can't the president's just can't
manage somehow to stop the war what
difference does it make what government
prevails in Cambodia whether it's
princey enough
supported by the Chinese or Lum nas
supported by the Russians in the United
States and in no case is the vital
security interests of the United States
at stake here and yet only the United
States continues as an active
participant in the war none of these
other countries have involved themselves
in the war I didn't Cambodia the
American people are against the will
have another group of prisoners of war
on our hands to try and negotiate their
release once more almost compulsive
somehow for presidents to keep fighting
out there represents in our opinion the
consensus of the Senate and I would
gather from recent actions that the
house may very well be willing to accept
it too and well this isn't a sense of
the Senate expression of an opinion by
the by the Senate if this becomes law
the White House would have to pay
attention to it because not to do so
will result in a violation of law for
which all kinds of consequences can
occur but I don't see any reason to
anticipate that if it becomes law the
White House will not obey him
for the first time in 1960 when his
ringing oratory keynoted the Democratic
convention in the mid-60s he was back in
the national spotlight angering
conservatives by opposing the Vietnam
War in the energy crisis his committee
hearings led to his current conviction
the big oil company should be broken up
church's latest assignment investigating
intelligence agencies again brought
national attention and kept him out of
the presidential race until committee
business was finished last Monday on
that ism he's against big government
wants to let state and local agent and
inflation control by bolstering free
enterprise and competition but says he
can't see spending 100 million dollars
for a bomber as much as domestic issues
every time a bad decision is made abroad
the ripples or the waves come back
across this country and most of our
trouble policy where our real interests
are at stake we stand hard and we stand
his late entry into the race Church
contends the man with momentum from
winning the late primaries will have the
best chance at the nomination it runs
against the conventional wisdom well if
I'm proven right
well it may very well be that the
Rockefeller Report is just the tip of
the iceberg we welcome it and that we
will give serious consideration to the
recommendations made by the Rockefeller
Commission but the report is limited and
our work kumusta probe much deeper into
the subject senator the Rockefeller
report didn't seem to go into any abuses
that hadn't already been hinted at in
the newspapers have you found any
evidence of things that are still
unknown by general public things that
haven't been in the press well I think
that if I were to answer that question I
would begin to cross the line that the
committee has properly drawn we are only
at the first stage of our investigation
we hope to thoroughly examine the
assassination issue and then to decide
on the method of disclosure and put that
aspect of the investigation behind us
after that we will we will look much
more thoroughly into other phases of the
investigation and it's simply a
premature for me to respond to your
question at this time
and we must take a very serious view of
perjury under oath now as chairman of
this committee I I intend that the
testimonial record be thoroughly
reviewed and that if it appears from the
record that appropriate action perjury
should be undertaken against any of the
witnesses that have appeared before us
but I will recommend to the committee
that the papers and the testimony be
turned over to the Justice Department
for that purpose
you
well only if
they they are made public by the foreign
governments concerned because I say our
purpose has not been to conduct this
investigation against foreign
governments and for that purpose to
avoid exacerbating relations between the
United States and other governments we
have never named the foreign officials
but if the government's concerned want
those names we will see that they are
furnished in a discreet in proper way
and that would be of course through the
State Department if it's to the State
Department that we have suggested these
foreign governments direct their
requests
the committee does not believe that the
axe which it has examined represent the
real American character they do not
reflect the ideals which have given the
people of this country and of the world
hope for a better fuller fairer life we
regard the assassination plots as
aberrations the United States must not
adopt the tactics of the enemy means are
as important as ends crisis makes it
tempting to ignore the wise restraints
that make men free but each time we do
so each time the means we use are wrong
our inner strength the strength which
makes us free is lessened
have you brought with you some of those
devices which would have enabled the CIA
to use this poison for we have indeed
for killing people
don't fight it I wonder
No
does does this does this pistol fire the
dart yes it does mr. chairman the that
the round thing at the top is obviously
the sight the rest of it is what is
practically a normal 45 although it
sister it's special it how over it it
works by electricity there's an battery
in the handle and it fires a small dog
so that when it fires it fires silently
almost silent yes that very little what
range does it have 100 meters I believe
about about a hundred yards 100 meters
about a hundred meters range and the
dart itself when it strikes the target
does the target know that he's about
he's been hit and about to die
that depends mr. chairman on the
particular dart use there are different
kinds of these flesh shots that were
used in various weapons system and a
special one was developed which
potentially would be able to enter the
target without perception
punished I mean we started just four
weeks ago and came from nowhere a very
late campaign that most people thought
had no chance and we've had to contend
with the front-runner who's had the
limelight in fact he had to cover
stories on Time and Newsweek this week
and so I think that to win in this state
would be something with political
miracle
well I can't win them all and I don't
know how to miss there no matter who
comes in first he's been there a lot
he's a very forceful and formidable
campaigner and I don't know how the
delegate the strength might be
apportioned my information is that if we
come out of prosper equal in both states
said my delegate total will go over over
you
houghton was reluctant to describe the
payments to Saudi officials as bribes
but subcommittee member Charles Percy
wasn't describing a transactions as
pollution of the free enterprise system
reading from Lockheed documents
subcommittee chairman Frank Church noted
that between 1970 and 75 Lockheed paid
soluti businessman Adnan Khashoggi 106
million dollars to secure contracts with
the Saudi Arabian government this even
though Church quoted Khashoggi as saying
such payments were not necessary and I
would like to know if that is because
mr. khashoggi told your company
representatives that it was necessary
well in in some cases yes sir and in
some cases Church later said that much
of the money paid off in bribes was in
turn reinvested by Saudis in American
business ventures and the money is
coming back and being invested in this
country so that as a result of these
extortionate practices American
companies are really financing the
purchases in the United States of shoki
and his associates and that's one of the
ways that these these bribes are coming
back being recycled as it were
houghton did not condone the payoffs but
said they were necessary to compete with
other foreign countries such as France
who were doing the same thing he even
suggested that the State and Defense
Department's were aware of the
transactions but at no point did he say
either Department endorsed them as a
result of the hearings the committee
hopes to develop legislation which will
make such practices less prevalent in
the future
well I frankly can't understand the
administration's position in the first
place
portions of these documents have been
leaked press the Congress is put in the
demeaning position of having to read
about the agreements in the New York
Times or the Jack Anderson column and
it's simply intolerable that these
agreements should not be made public the
American people are fed to the teeth
with secrets particularly as they relate
to international agreements and it would
be in the best interests of all
concerned the best interest of Israel
the best interests of Egypt and most
assuredly the best interests of the
United States to bring these documents
into the open that's the purpose of my
emotion
oh my reaction is that this is of course
an internal affair of Chile we all are
distressed at the plight of the Chilean
people and the failure really of the a
nd government but what we objected to
was any outside interference to try to
bring down that government the
government policies have failed the
Marxist theory does not work among a
free people there has been a spirit of
freedom and independence among these
Spanish people that certainly those
principles and practices of Marxism that
did not apply to Chile and the economy
went from bad to worse inflation was
rampant values were destroyed incentives
were gone people didn't know how to set
their sets of values but this had to be
a Chilean affair well that's a matter
for the the Chileans to determine a yen
day's government was a Marxist
government I personally have no sympathy
for Marxism but the government had been
elected by the people and this is a
military coup d'etat which is the
fashionable way by which governments are
seized in Latin America as you know I
think that it means that that militarism
has spread now in into Chile and there
are very few governments left that
actually have been chosen by the people
fewer than a handful and all of them
Latin America